Update philosophy.mdx (#120)
AerynOS/dotdev: src/content/docs/AerynOS/philosophy.mdx

</Aside>

AerynOS is the collective output of brand new tooling and associated processes, engineered from the ground up to deliver a Linux distribution that focuses on reliability, up front predictability, proven performance and efficiency.

Our ground up approach has enabled us to provide atomic updates without requiring reboots or having to utilize containers for package delivery. Part of our design philosophy is to deliver "just enough" flexibility and customizability to end users, without becoming a meta-distribution, and without compromising on predictability or reliability.

## Stateless (aka `hermetic /usr`)

Most Linux distributions follow the [Filesystem Hierarchy Standard](https://refspecs.linuxfoundation.org/FHS_3.0/fhs-3.0.pdf) which sets the structure for all files and directories on a Unix-like system. In traditional FHS based Linux distributions, package files can be installed to multiple directories, these can be directories or files that users may interact with (such as config files).

> In AerynOS, packages are forbidden from containing any files outside of the `/usr` directory. The /usr directory exclusively belongs to the system with the user not intended to make any changes in this directory what-so-ever. Files written under the /usr directory by a user will get removed (or reverted) the next time the system is updated.

Reviewer: I would prob add something about the user being able to go back to factory defaults and that /etc overwrites are still a thing.

## Package Management 

We have looked at how we can automate/simplify as much of our package update process as possible to reduce the mental burden for our packagers. A few examples include:

- When looking to create a new installable package (not currently in our repository), we have a command that will look at the package source file and automatically create the recipe template, completing it with as much information as it can based on the contents of the source file. This reduces the work the packager has to complete the recipe before it can be used to create an installable package.
- When updating an existing package recipe, we have a command that will attempt to automatically find if there is a new release available and update the recipe with the new version details. Once this update has been accepted and saved by the packager, the packager simply needs to run the build and test that the package works as expected.
    
## Package Building

> We currently have four builders dedicated to building official packages that land in our repositories. Our tooling has been developed so it can place smaller builds to our weaker machines and larger more complex builds are reserved for our more powerful builders. Any builds that require a chain of reverse dependency rebuilds are analysed before being sent to our builders so they are built in the correct order. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We currently have four permanent builders dedicated to building official packages that land in our repositories, and a few more temporary builders can be enabled during very large build queue processing. Our tooling has been developed so it will prefer to send smaller builds to our weaker machines, while larger, more complex builds will preferentially be sent to our more powerful builders. Build tasks are automatically analysed before being sent to our builders so they are built in the correct order.
```
